---
id: libra-cli
title: Libra CLI
---

### Synopsis

```rust
cargo run -p client --bin client -- [-a host] [-p port] [-f accounts] [-d debug_port]

```

### Description

Libra CLI (client) is the user interface (interactive shell) to interact with the Libra Blockchain. It provides basic commands for a user to create accounts, mint coins, perform transfers, and query the blockchain. It can be used to interact with the testnet, a local Libra Blockchain, or any other remote blockchain chain by specifying a validator host.

The following options are available:

* **-m** | **--faucet_key_file_path**, Path to the generated keypair for the faucet account.  Generated by generate_keypair. If not passed, a new keypair will be generated for you and placed in a temporary directory.
* **-f** | **--faucet_server**, Host that operates a faucet service If not passed, will be derived from host parameter.
* **-a** | **—-host**, Specify the destination host for CLI to connect with, default value is 'localhost'.
* **-p** | **-—port**, Specify the destination port (public port of destination Libra chain) for CLI to connect with, default value is 30307.
* **-n** | **--mnemonic_file**, File location from which to load mnemonic word for user account address/key generation. If not passed, a new mnemonic file will be generated for you.
* **-s** | **--validator_set_file**, File location from which to load trusted peers config for validator set.

### Invocation

CLI is invoked as an interactive shell. A user can enter commands to interact with the Libra chain.

### Command

CLI commands are in the following format:

```rust
major_command sub_command [options]
```

Enter major command only will show the help information under this major command. Major commands is one of the following:

* **account** | **a**, account related operations. Sub commands include:
    * **create** | **c**,  Create a random account with private/public key pair. Account information will be held in memory only. The created account will not be saved to chain.
    * **save** | **s**, Save all accounts information, including new created ones, to file.
    * **load** | **l**, Load accounts from file.
    * **list** | **la**, Print all accounts that were created or loaded
    * **<mint | m>** | **<mintb| mb>**, Mint coins to the account. Suffix 'b' is for blocking.
        * Usage:  mint|mint|m|b <account_address_to>|<account_ref_id_to> <mint_balance>. If blocking is specified (using suffix 'b'), CLI will query chain until the transaction is finalized/available (Same in other sub commands).
        * Arguments:
            * account_address|account_reference_id, the receiver account to mint the coins to. If the receiver account does not exist, it will be created first. Either account_address or account_ref_id (internal index of account in CLI) can be used to specify receiver account (same in other sub commands). The account sent this mint transaction (currently preloaded genesis account) pays for the gas.
            * mint_balance, the balance of coin minted to the receiver account.
* **transfer** | **transferb** | **t** | **tb**, Transfer coins from account to another. Suffix 'b' is for blocking.
    * Usage: transfer | transferb | t | tb <sender_account_address>|<sender_account_ref_id> <receiver_account_address>|<receiver_account_ref_id> <number_of_coins>
    * Arguments:
        * sender_account_address | sender_account_ref_id, the account to send this transfer transaction. The sender account pays the gas.
        * receive_account_address | receiver_account_ref_id, the account to which this transaction sends coins. If the receiver account does not exist, it will be created first and sender will pay the gas for both account creation and coin transfer.
        * number_of_coins, the number of coins transferred to receiver account.
* **query** | **q**, query data from destination chain. All query operations are blocking. Sub commands include:
    * **balance** | **b**     Get the current balance of an account
        * Usage: balance | b <account_ref_id>|<account_address>
        * Arguments:
            * account_ref_id|account_address, the account to query balance for.
            * assert_balance | a    Assert that balance is equal to the specified value, CLI will panic if the value from storage does not equal to expected value.
        * Usage: assert_balance | a <account_ref_id>|<account_address> <expected_value>
        * Arguments:
            * account_ref_id | account_address, the account to assert balance.
            * expected_value, expected value to assert to.
    * **sequence** | **s**    Get the current sequence number for an account.
        * Usage: sequence | s <account_ref_id>|<account_address>.
        * Arguments:
            * <account_ref_id>|<account_address> the account to get current/latest sequence number.
    * **account_state** | **as**   Get the latest state for an account.
        * Usage: account_state | as <account_ref_id>|<account_address>.
        * Arguments:
            * account_ref_id | account_address, the account to query latest state.
    * **txn_acc_seq** | **ts**     Get the committed transaction by account and sequence number.
        * Usage: txn_acc_seq | ts <account_ref_id>|<account_address> <sequence_number>
        * Arguments:
            * account_ref_id | account_address, the account to query committed transaction.
            * sequence_number, the sequence number of committed transaction.
    * **txn_range** | **tr**    Get the committed transaction by range
        * Usage: txn_range | tr <start_version> <limit>
        * Arguments:
            * start_version, the version to query the transaction from.
            * limit, the maximal number of transactions to query.
    * **event** | **ev**    Get event by account and path.
        * Usage: event | ev <account_ref_id>|<account_address> <path> <star_sequence_number> <ascending> <limit>.
        * Arguments:
            * account_ref_id | account_address, the account to query events.
            * path, the path of the events to query.
            * star_sequence_number, the sequence number of event to query from.
            * ascending, the direction of query from star_sequence_number.
            * limit, the maximal number of events to query.
* **quit** | **q!**, exit the CLI. No sub command is required.
* **help** | **h**, prints help. No sub command is required.
* **debug** | **d**, retrieve debug information. Sub commands include:
    * **metrics** | **metrics?** | **m** | **m?**,  Print node metrics. (? for json output)
    * **dump** | **d**, Dump node heap profile

### Account Creation/Mint(Faucet) for testnet

Account creation provided by the CLI generates a local keypair, but nothing is created on the blockchain.  To create an account on the blockchain:

* Transfer coins to the address you wish to create. If the recipient account does not exist, the receiver account will be created first and then coins will be transferred. The sender pays for both account creation and transfer.
* Send a mint transaction to mint coins to an account. The account will be created first and coins will then be minted. Unlike other transactions, a non-existing account itself can request a mint transaction.  For test net, there is NO explicit limit for how many coins an account can mint. It will be utilized as the method for users to receive coins to being experimenting with the testnet.



